Comment[ArrayExpressAccession]	E-MTAB-2259
MAGE-TAB Version	1.1																													
Investigation Title	Allele-Specific Expression in Human Brain and Liver																													
Comment[Submitted Name]	Allele-Specific Expression in Human Brain and Liver
Experiment Description	Systematic survey of gene and isoform allele-specific expression in human brain and liver tissues, and description of optimised bioinformatic and statistical methods to accurately measure allele-specific expression. DNA-seq data for the same set of samples have been deposited at the European Nucleotide Archive under project accessino PRJEB5279 ( http://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/data/view/PRJEB5279 ).																													
Experimental Design	genotype design	organism part comparison design	unknown design																											
Comment[AEExperimentType]	RNA-seq of coding RNA	RNA-seq of non coding RNA																												
Comment[AEExperimentDisplayName]	RNA-seq of human brain and liver samples to study allele-specific expression																													
Experimental Factor Name	organism part	replicate																												
Experimental Factor Type	organism part	replicate																												
Quality Control Type	technical replicate																													
Quality Control Term Source REF	EFO																													
Public Release Date	2014-05-01																													
Person Last Name	Wood																													
Person First Name	David																													
Person Mid Initials	L.A.																													
Person Email	d.wood@imb.uq.edu.au																													
Person Phone																														
Person Address	Institute for Molecular Bioscience, 306 Carmody Rd, St Lucia QLD 4072, Australia																													
Person Affiliation	Institute for Molecular Bioscience, University of Queensland																													
Person Roles	submitter																													
PubMed ID																														
Publication Author List	David L. A. Wood, Katia Nones, Anita Steptoe, Angelika Christ, Ivon Harliwong, Felicity Newell, Timothy J. C. Bruxner, David Miller, Nicole Cloonan, Sean M. Grimmond																													
Publication Title	Accurate Resolution of Gene and Isoform Allele-Specific Expression in Human Liver and Brain																													
Publication Status																														
Protocol Name	P-MTAB-37342	P-MTAB-37343	P-MTAB-37344
Protocol Type	nucleic acid extraction protocol	nucleic acid library construction protocol	nucleic acid sequencing protocol																											
Protocol Description	pre-extracted RNA was sourced commercially from BioChain	Ribosomal depletion and RNA library construction was performed using Truseq Stranded Total RNA kit with Ribo-Zero Human/Mouse/Rat Set A (Illumina, Cat. #RS-122-2201).1ug of total RNA used as starting material. The library preparations were performed according to the manufacturer's protocol (Truseq Stranded Total RNA Sample Prep Guide Pages 58-87) with minor modifications to the fragmentation and the number of PCR cycles (from the recommended 15 down to 8 in order to increase library fragment complexity). After the addition of elute, fragment and high mix to the ribosomal RNA-depleted RNA, samples were incubated on ice and followed immediately by first strand synthesis. The DNA fragments were amplified and the cleaned libraries quantified using high sensitivity Bioanalyzer. 	Libraries were indexed allowing sequencing of multiple samples on one slide. Prior to onboard cluster generation and sequencing run, the pooled library was denatured by using 0.1N NaOH and diluted to the required concentration (7pM). Libraries were sequenced as 100bp paired-end on the Illumina HiSeq 2500.																											
Protocol Term Source REF	EFO	EFO	EFO																											
Protocol Hardware			Illumina HiSeq 2500																											
Term Source Name	EFO	ArrayExpress
Term Source File	http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo	http://www.ebi.ac.uk/arrayexpress																												
Comment[SecondaryAccession]	ERP004697
Comment[SequenceDataURI]	http://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/data/view/ERR420386-ERR420393
SDRF File	E-MTAB-2259.sdrf.txt
